And I do see that we have a full quum
and I will scoot Joanie just before we
get ready the regular meeting. So uh
I'll just read the u the meeting called
to order the application 25-12 CBA
Heather Barry and Eric Bear seeking a
variance presentation by the application
will be first up uh and then we can have
comments and questions by the staff by
neighbors the applicant um all that good
stuff. So, with no further ado, I'll let
you guys take the floor.
>> All right. I'm Heather Barry.
>> I'm Eric Barry. Thank you all for being
here tonight and allowing us some time
to present our project. Um, so we are
here tonight requesting a variance to
allow for replacing our existing aging
12x20 garage with a slightly larger 14x
24 garage in the same location. We're
not looking to move it at all. I'll put
it in the same location other than the
increase in the overall foot will come a
little bit forward closer towards the
road, a little bit closer to our house
but not closer to the lake or closer to
the property line. Um this is only a 96
foot increase in overall footprint but
offers increased functionality and
storage with the second floor storage
lot. So um we have here a list of our
hardships and justifications.
So, one being that the uh current garage
is undersized and aging. It was built
for a seasonal cottage that was
originally on the property. Uh and it
does not provide adequate storage for a
year-round single family home with
children, what we have now.
>> Uh number two would be the setback
limitation. Um, and if we could bring up
the exhibit, it's the uh the plot plan
be
page, but if you want to see it on on
screen.
>> Okay. Well, it'll be recorded, I think,
too. Right.
>> 820.
>> Yeah.
>> There you go.
>> It might be a little hard to see, but
it's up there. It
>> is. When can you go to the Zoom and hit
share screen so that this is recorded in
here?
That was green.
[Music]
>> You guys can
>> Yes. Well, I can bring that up. Um, I
just really wanted so you guys could see
the setbacks that are seeking variance
for um, and the ones that are currently
what make our current garage that I'm
conforming. It's the proximity to the
property line on the uh, I guess the
south side of the property and um, and
then the lake on the back side of the
garage. Um, so these town setback
requirements adopted after our lot was
established and the unique shape of our
lot renders compliance with setback
requirements a hardship. We can't place
a storage shed of any kind or accessory
structure elsewhere on the property. So
our only feasible solution is to seek
variance to modestly increase the size
and functionality of our only existing
garage.
Um we also have no alternative storage
options. We don't have any attic in our
home. Our basement because of proximity
to the lake um you know there's a risk
of flooding. You also can't store any
kind of power equipment in the basement.
You don't want to have engines with
muscle fuel in them in your basement in
your dwelling.
Um, so right now currently because of
the size of our garage, what we have in
there, essential items such as our lawn
mower, bicycles, strollers, they're all
being kept outdoors under
>> which exposes them to damage. Doesn't
look great. It clutters up the property,
creates safety issues, all those things.
Um, family needs, we're a family of
three with hopes to expand, stay here in
town, and our current garage is
insufficient to support our growing
needs. Uh we do view this as a modest
request and um we do also have the
exhibit from Boer Farms which which was
helped to
>> Yeah. So that
>> help you guys visualize exactly what it
is and how it
>> Yeah.
>> Is that the exact thing you're looking
to get?
>> It's Yeah, we already went there. We
picked it out. We're like they're ready
to go. They're just waiting obviously on
if we can do it or not. And it's already
put together so it's not going to be
like a long project that will impact the
neighbors. this art. It just
>> they'll they're going to prep the area
and then probably cleverly named
floater.
>> Yeah, it's going to be the only one that
says floater.
>> Yeah, but it's basically
>> they're going to truck that in.
>> Yeah, but our driveway is straight and
short. So,
>> our current garage is 12 feet in height.
This would only be 16. Gives us that
additional space.
>> And we're at 12 and this is 13 or 13t 8
in. So it's not even really 14, but
>> but again, so the proposed replacement
adds only 96 square feet to the overall
footprint. Really the game changer for
us is just that additional storage
above. Right now we have nowhere in our
garage, just raptors. Maybe we can put
some new pool floats and noodles up
there and things like that, but other
than that, you're not putting anything
up there.
>> Um so it's a small and reasonable
increase, but it greatly improves the
functionality without overbuilding. Uh
the new garage will remain a single
onecar garage. We don't really plan to
plan park a car in there. Um but that's
technically what it is. Single car
garage but with safer more practical
storage options. Um we also believe that
it aligns with zoning goals other than
these the variance that we're seeking
here. Um improves safety and usability
of the property, maintains the
residential character of the
neighborhood, enhances the property
value without negatively affecting
neighboring properties and uh the new
structure will comply with watershed
requirements
>> because we're going to put stone around
it. So, we already talked to Linda Derek
about that.
>> Yep. Um, listen, we also do have a we
had letters of support from our
neighbors who are seated with us here
today. Um, we have those on file as
well. Wanted to bring those up.
>> Yeah, you want to bring up the one from
Elma. And then the other one from Mark
and Na is uh in your packet if you want
to just look at that one. But yeah, it's
at the bottom.
We only have
>> Yeah. Uh it doesn't print out someone
from Linda Barrett, but if you want to
>> So I can read this for the record.
That's all right.
>> Sure.
>> So dear member the zoning board of
appeals. I'm writing on behalf of Barry
and Nether Barry's request for a
variance regarding their proposed garage
replacement. Elma is aware of the
project and the dimensions and has no
concerns for negative impact to the
lady. Uh though the proposed garage is
slightly larger than the existing one,
the setback from the water will not be
decreased as we understand it. So at
this point, all five AMA board members
are unanimously in support of the
Barry's request for bearing no concerns
to any increased potential harm to the
lake. Feel free to contact me with any
questions. Linda Derek, DMA president,
and we did discuss with uh Linda that we
do plan to surround it with stone to
capture any runoff we use. current
trucker doesn't have that brass dirt
around it. So, it'll actually be, you
know, after rain will run off better
than what we have now.
>> We also have a letter from Mark and it's
in your pack or Mark will let you say
something at the end or turn I guess.
>> Yeah. You say it now if you want to read
your letters.
>> Yeah,
>> remember what I wrote.
>> I can I'll read the letter.
I'll read it.
>> I was just gonna speak temporarily.
>> Oh, go ahead. And I'll read it. Yeah.
>> And and uh yeah, I would be happy if you
read it. But for my mind, it is not an
appreciable change. It's just replacing
an existing structure which uh
well, a secret
and it's it's really falling apart. I
let the uh uh where it meets the ground
it's rotting and so on. So I think this
replacement and a little bit enhance the
property uh enhance the neighborhood and
would allow them to put their you know
all the things that people use for
maintaining their yard in a garage. So I
think overall it's not an appreciable
increase in size and I think it would
would look very nice for the beginning.
>> So I endorse it both wholeheartedly and
so does it native who unfortunately
couldn't be here today.
>> And then David and our other neighbors
we didn't make them write a letter
because they're really not 100 feet but
they're right next to market. So we
wanted to at least get their approval
and let we made them aware of the
change. We're here full support
you guys.
>> Do you want me to read off the letter or
>> No, that's
Yeah, you have a copy in your in your
packet.
>> Um yeah,
>> just in the record.
>> You keep talking about improved like
safety like what do you feel is
>> so we were Yeah, that's so the next
thing. Well, so we have one more thing
and then we'll get one more time and
then you Okay.
>> Um, so you know, as as I noted, you
know, we did already speak with Alma
about surrounding with stone, capturing
all their runoff. We also um went to the
wetlands uh commissioner here and got
Joe and got our permit and also the
Eastern Highlands Health District. Um,
and those are both on file. So, we paid
for those permits. They inspected the
project and approved.
>> So, even though the wetlands permit we
were on the line, you're a little bit
underneath. you probably could have
maybe not done it right up front. Um, we
decided to just proactively get the
approval uh so that we could hopefully
move forward.
>> Um, so yeah, we wanted to just say that
we voluntarily paid for and obtain
wetlands approval because although
technically it wasn't required small
footprint increase, we thought it was
the right thing to do and we understand
we want to be good neighbors to the
lake. Um, let's see. And we also, again,
just to reiterate, we also plan to
adhere to, it's the new wershed
regulation. That's what we're going to
adhere to again because we're under that
100 square foot improvement.
Technically, you don't need to, but we
are going to follow that and surround it
with stone, capture any rain water
running off the roof.
>> Um, and that brings us to safety, family
impact.
>> Safety and family impact. So, air
sometimes works overnight or early in
the morning and we have a baby. Um, so
right now we obviously have no garage
and there's nothing attached. But like
in the morning when I have to bring him
out to daycare, just to be able to pull
my car in when it's bad out and not have
to like have him inside and you know, I
don't have anyone else there to help me
to clean off my car. And then also with
the lawn equipment, it's a safety hazard
because once he starts running around,
if we have all our equipment in the yard
and we can't get it all into that
garage, um, you know, he's he's the
child is going to get into it. Um, so
having a functional garage space would
allow me to safely park inside during
storms and winter weather. We're not
planning to do it all the time, but just
when we really, really, really need to.
So this request is more not really about
luxury, but more about safety,
practicality, and meeting the basic
needs of our home.
And so to conclude, given the mod modest
scope of the request, unique hardships
of the property, being it's a
non-conforming lot around the lake, and
just not a lot we can do there without
seeking a variance, uh the lack of
alternative storage options, and the
support of our neighbors, no objections
from Alma. After fully describing the
scope of the project, we respectfully
ask the board to considering grant the
variance.
Great. That's it. Any questions, D?
Yeah. So the existing garage is uh what
is it on a slab or is it what's
>> Yeah. So it's on a slab and cl spoke to
cloud farms and their preference is to
do it on stone. So our plan is unless
when they do the site visit because you
can't have the site visit until you have
the permit um is to place it on a bed of
stone like they're they're asking us to
which would be better for the lake
anyway. So unless there was some big
hardship with that, we that's what our
>> Jam take the slab out.
>> We're trying to get the flab out and put
it on a bed of stone and it shows I
don't know if you have it. If if you
look at the diagram that Wayne had up
before
>> which one is it? No, no. The one from
Clott Farms, it shows like, you probably
can't see it here, but if you zoom in
underneath, it shows like on a bed of
>> So, you're taking a structure that's
mounted, per se, to the ground and
actually moving towards a structure
that's not mounted. So, Wayne, where
does that fall into? It's still a
building within
>> It's still a building perh zoning. It's
>> roof,
>> right? Yeah, it's
>> okay for zoning purposes.
>> For zoning purpicial
purposes, it may be something different
because it's not right.
>> Right. I you guys didn't mention it, but
I'm going to point out the hardship I
think that that I see. Um, you can't
obviously move this to the front yard.
>> Yeah.
>> You're you're going to be a violation of
setbacks in a worse situation. And same
with the sideyard for the lake. you're
going to eat into your 75 ft
requirement. So, your hardship's really
there's nowhere else to do this.
Initially, we were looking into a
storage shed a lot cheaper and there was
just nowhere to put that. And um so,
we're thinking we'll have to go through
this whole process just for the shed. We
have a building that's already there.
Just let's make it a little bit bigger,
more functional for us,
>> not not go any closer to the current,
you know, the property line now or the
lake and um just improve the overall
functionality of what we already have. I
just thought that made more sense and
you know any anywhere we could seek
approval for a shed anyway really just
>> functionally like even that 75 ft like
Wayne you saw it it's a hill so it's not
like it's a flat area at the side or the
front where we could place it there's
literally no other place to put any
other structure our only option is to
>> I didn't visit the site
support just said that I just couldn't
see any other place to put it
>> yeah I went there Perhaps yeah
>> I have a question about so you have
increase in imperous surface and inland
wetlands is okay with that right
>> improved and everything there's a
>> one question I have related to that so I
appreciate your the idea to try to
mitigate that which is what happens in
some coast you increase in impervious
surface you have to mitigate that so
that there's no extra runoff off your
property
>> and I like that you're trying to do that
um have you had an inch in that like
just putting stones on the ground is not
the same as say doing ground work to say
have a bed of stones like has there been
any engineering
>> really following the guidance
>> following the guidance of that
waterershed allocation form and so it
discussed uh or outlined putting out two
foot of stone surrounding for a 2in
rainwater event
so 2 feet out from
>> it's 2 feet out yeah all the way
surrounding the building
>> how deep is
What he's talking about is the nutrient
allocation.
>> So we didn't have to fill out the form
because we're under the
>> whatever do
>> if they get the variance need to do that
with that.
>> Yeah.
>> So we'll follow those guidelines and
>> so no we didn't you know engineer but
those guidelines are there. Yeah.
>> Okay. All right. I didn't know that was
part of the rules for blink.
[Music]
of the general.
>> No, I mean I just wanted to talk to
Wayne about some of the passages he
cited as to why it was rejected from in
the first place.
>> It's an formul that afterwards. I'm not
seeing
>> you're not
ask questions. Joe, go ahead and ask.
>> Um,
so
I don't know if Wayne knows
>> if the
structure is
encroaching on
um, respect to acquired lot coverage,
right? I mean, it's a tiny increase, but
there's there's also um a section of the
statute that talk about you can't cover
more than the
>> 12% in the Lake District.
>> 12% lot in the in the Lake District.
>> Does this put us have not done the
calculations, but I their lot is bigger
than most lots. It's just the way it's
shaped. It's the way it's shaped because
wires on
>> do not believe that they're exceeding
well this will put them over the 12%
>> they don't
okay
>> would that be part of the if we grab
this would that be part of this
>> that's part of the nutrient alloc those
all those numbers are in that nutrient
allocation
>> okay
before and after
>> I mean this will be our discussion when
we go um the passage where if the
structure is nonconforming which I mean
your grandfather because everything you
have is
>> non
but it you're not supposed to increase
the size of volume of such nonformity
but
>> I'm trying interpreted the language
right
>> you know they're trying their best to
they're like not making it any closer to
the side or the water, but they are the
structure itself would increase the
line.
>> Exactly.
>> So,
you know,
>> there's no way to make this component.
Yeah.
>> You know, there's no way to make it
perform. It's already there. So, it's
just
>> I would point out the structure is there
if the structure the existing structure
could be rebuilt in its exact form.
>> Right.
>> If it fell down or something happened,
it could be rebuilt. That leads to
another question I had. I was thinking
as I went through here, like would it
you could might be able to save yourself
some trouble. Maybe you want to put your
car in there. I don't know. Could you
get from just a smaller a smaller
building that would be that would meet
your storage needs for lawn equipment
and kids stuff?
>> Yeah.
>> Um without without putting you without
increasing your number.
>> It'd be the same though, right? Well,
but the issue was we we've looked at
several different sizes there and this
is I I believe and we can confirm, but
it's the smallest size that also allows
the the full upstairs storage area.
>> I think so.
>> Any smaller and you wouldn't have that.
>> And the amount of money it costs to do
it. It just like we have a baby and just
doesn't really make sense for us to to
replace the same exact thing pretty
much. We'll need a little bit of
>> but it does need that extra width to
have the staircase inside to be able to
go upstairs.
Even 12t wide for a car is pretty
narrow.
Open the door or something.
>> Yeah. You couldn't even get it right.
>> So the extra width and length allows for
that stair stairs to be there and still
have the ability to park a car.
>> What kind of like they're increasing the
volume, but they're not increasing the
nonconform.
>> They are increasing the nonconform
>> because they're putting in a larger
building. So it's like four feet larger
on one side, two feet on the other.
>> Well, they're increasing the structure,
but they're not where it nonconforms.
They're not incre you know what I'm
saying.
>> Yeah. What she's trying to say is go
beyond the volume of the property. Okay.
It's not any closer to the sideline or
any closer to
the property is already there. The
building
>> they're increasing something that
already
>> Yeah. there. No, thank you for that. We
wanted to point out we aren't we are not
seeing a reduction in setbacks.
>> Right. Without seeing any kind of
reduction,
>> right?
>> So So does is that what this I I think
probably saying what this means is
you're not supposed to really increase
the volume of anything that have a
>> nonconformity to it or is it you know
that's
>> Yeah, that's different.
>> Yeah. But for Gard,
>> right? I mean, one of the things, and
seems like you've read the rules here,
you have to demonstrate a unique
hardship, which is a pretty high high
bar. Like a place to put your car is not
necessarily
>> No, agree. You know, unique hardship.
>> No, that's what we have to think about.
>> Well, right. And that's why we outlined
several other hardships. really,
you know, none more important than the
fact that we can't put the storage
building anywhere else on the property
because
>> we also unique shape of it and the
current setback regulations.
>> But just so you know, that's what we
have to consider as we
what they're saying is they can't have
anywhere
else,
>> right?
>> Most other properties in town. If you
want the sword, you can add a shed,
right? And we just can't do that.
>> They can't have shed,
>> right?
um we have because did you make that in
>> so I mean what can be really helpful at
least to me anyway is like so that we
know things are what they say they are
um to have an engineering survey is that
part of what the town asks for ask for a
waiver for that I actually have an A2
survey neighbor's property that does
locate their
>> garage is and on on top of that all of
those measurements ments. It's not just
we willy-nilly drew it. It all with one
with within one in like they're all one
inched out and they're all they all
match up to all of if you look at like
all the town documents um like the old
documents from the 70s that are all in
the file all the sewer the well all that
stuff matches up to everything that's in
the file. I did call about a A2 survey
and it was $15,000. So, honestly, that's
why I I tried. I called three places,
but I figured unless you were really
going to say yes and I was going to get
a really nice garage. We
>> Sorry. It locates the property from
>> Yeah. Right.
>> So, that shows exactly like this is an
A1 survey and it shows exactly where the
garage would be.
>> The site of the lots are having
the sidewalk. They're, you know, I think
they're the same as they are now, but
it's hard to tell about the hive
watermark on the picture. It would look
like it would be encroaching on that
much more, but
>> it's not it won't change it. Yeah, we
even had Linda Derek come over and look,
you know, the Elmas, that's their
biggest concern is is that and she said
that it says in her letter that she
doesn't have any concerns because it's
not moving any closer. It's just moving
to like one and a almost one and a half
feet to the side. Not even two feet.
It's 12 to 13
feet eight. That's what's good about it.
>> Um and so this might be a question for
R.
How what assurance do we or the town or
you or zoning or have that this new
structure will go in the same place and
in fact be there and not that it won't
get you know say when the guy comes in
with the truck he doesn't just put it
where it's not supposed to be not real
>> there you go
and it doesn't have like are they going
to flag the property when they do that
just are they going to flag the property
before Yeah, it's because farmers,
they'll do the site work, so they'll be
flagging and fabric.
>> Yeah. And the door on our garage now
lines up perfectly with the garage. And
the new one will do the same thing. So
we we couldn't move it anywhere else in
their driveway.
>> Yeah.
>> Can we can we be next to the lake now?
Like
>> No, I think yes. My concern was like why
they're here for the CDA,
>> right?
>> Wayne, how how do you feel about it?
>> I I defer to the board and I Yeah, I
defer to us,
>> but I did spend a lot of time Wayne's
office
>> board's decision. Anything else? I
believe you run the meeting or
Okay. So, what I'm going to do then is
uh close the uh public hearing and open
the regular meeting. So, I'll just go
through this one more time. Uh call to
order. What I do need to do is um see
Joan Ross. Uh so, can I have a motion
from anybody on that? Make a motion.
>> Thank you, Dave Huitt. And a second,
second by Fred. All those in favor? I.
Okay. So, Joan is seated as our
alternate. We have five members. Uh, so
there we have um any additions or
changes to the agenda against anything
else?
Okay. any other public speak
then I will go ahead and go ahead and
read the application one more time so
application 2512 CBA Heather Barry and
Eric Barry seeking a variance
applications
applicants are seeking relief from
section 4.147.05
and section 11.2 two of the end
resulting regulations demolish an
existing 12x20 non-performing garage and
replace it with a new 14x 240 fabricated
onecar garage with a lot 16 West Street
and over Connecticut. So, uh, I guess
the point I would entertain
emotions,
>> I make a motion to uh, approve this
project.
>> Did you have makes a motion to approve
this project? Anybody want to second
that motion? Kathleen. Okay. Discussion.
>> I have one. This is one of the nice
things about the A2 is that it shows the
flood elevations and that it would come
up here, but like do you know the
elevation of that lot with regard to
flight because you are in
>> the flight elevation would be the short.
>> So it's it's higher if you go around the
back of our it's up like
>> right. Does this fall into the FEMA
blood flood plane?
>> No, we're not. I I can I can tell you um
a couple years ago when the lake flooded
about 10 ft of our property didn't come
anywhere near our garage.
>> Yeah. Okay.
>> And we're not in the flood zone.
>> They get water at the big
>> So you're not in I know that's a thing
along the coast. I don't know if they do
it.
>> No. Are we in charge?
>> It was a significant flood. I don't I've
never seen a lake that high. Never
broken down.
>> But because someone does control the
water that
>> Yeah. They they release the nan. Eric's
actually a part of that too. he has.
>> But it because that's not an anchor
structure with a foundation on that. Is
is that a problem?
>> I don't think it's a problem.
>> Okay.
That's my opinion as far as as far as
that piece or not.
>> Okay.
>> All right.
>> If need be, I'm sure we can request some
type of anchoring system with the
structure.
>> Well, it's required that you have to. I
didn't know if it was required.
>> I don't know. Site business.
>> Yeah. I mean, they couldn't do screws or
something.
>> I don't think that's probably I know
that's what I don't quite have barns
sheds this size and they're all on skids
on stone.
I see that every day. Yeah.
>> Yeah.
>> Other discussion.
>> I mean, I just looking at the map here,
there's not for me. Um, it's just the
the lay of land that they have. They
have no other place to put anything.
Um
the fact that it's not anchored to the
ground, my opinion almost improving the
property, but it's going to sit on a bed
of snow. They're not going to excavate.
>> So there's no concerns there with the
way the wetlands.
I would think again my opinion is just
because they can't do anything else.
That's a hardship. They can't put a shed
in here. They can't store a lawn
equipment indoors. Uh, I know I keep
buying riding mower indoor.
I have a barn, too. Anyways, you have
two car garage.
>> That's a lot more popular.
>> Mark will tell you how many times he's
seen me stumble out the door with the
stroller and the baby.
>> I do find it a bit of a hardship just
with the fact that first of all, they
can't put a shed anywhere else. They
can't store anything at all outdoors.
The building existing seems to be
rotting as you say on the ground. Think
there's actually an improvement with the
stone building in my anywhere else.
But anyways, those are my comments.
I'm thinking we might even argue a
little bit that they
on the lines of improving things and
nonconformities. I mean if they
help a little bit of you know they may
and anything rotting isn't very healthy.
So, you know, there might actually be
some small things there that
are on the positive side, you know,
balancing out the conformity a little
bit there.
>> Yeah.
>> Um
submitted. Um
everybody,
uh I'll go to Dave. Yay. Your name?
Good luck.
>> Yeah, be a nice
>> Thank you very much.
>> Good luck. Thanks.
>> Thank you so
all right so much. Uh the only meeting I
have I don't think we have any meeting
any minutes to approve um
>> we're due in July
and else
>> take care guys.
>> Thank you. Thank you for all your
telling
>> you're going to get some.
>> So online on the town website it says
Dave and not
>> so confused. I'm like
something is wrong here like keep saying
Huitt at the meeting but I'm because I
look at the spelling like something is
wrong. So that's where the emails are
going.
>> Yeah, the emails are going they're going
to instead of
>> I'm like something has not.
>> So can we just have those?
>> Yeah. Make a motion to amend it but for
>> Okay. So I will make the motion change
the minutes to reflect
from Dave Dave. Do I have a second?
>> I'll second that.
>> Second by gentlemen. All those in favor
>> you missed that one. So one, two, three.
We can vote. It's carries the three of
us.
>> I miss
and because you're here
now.
>> They got Dave in his name instead of
Dave's name
>> on the town website. So I emailed I'm
like
thanks.
>> Okay. Anything else? I don't deserve it.
I missed that.
>> I don't do the whips. I just got a
second.
>> Okay. Do I have a motion? I already have
a motion.
>> Do you have a motion to
>> We discussed all those in favor?
>> I All those opposed.
All right. We will adopt those minutes
as amended.
Uh let's see. Anybody want to make a
motion to adjurnn?
>> I'll make a motion to adjurnn.
>> All right. Jeff general. Anybody want to
second that?
Dave Huitt always.
Okay. Right. Thank you everybody.